

TEST PLAN FOR E-COMMERCE PROJECT

AUTHOR:
VERSION:
DATE:

1 - INTRODUCTION

This document describes the procedures and methods that can be used in 
e-commerce manual testing process.
The objective of the testing activities is to check functions and features of a e-commerce
 developed for web browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari) and modern
Android and iOS devices.

This Test Plan document supports the following 
objectives:
 - Identify existing project information and software componentes to be
 tested;
 - Recommendation and description of the testing strategies to be employed;
 - Identify required resources and provide a test effort estimate;
 - List the test project deliverable elements.

2 -SCOPE OF PROJECT

The following components and functions would be tested:
 1. Home Page
 2. Product List Page
 3. Product Page
 4. Chart
 5. Login and password recovery
 6. Checkout
 7. Payment
 8. Search
 9. User Page

3 - WORK PLAN

According to project requirements, define test coverage and
types of tests to be done, writing test scenarios and
user cases, define the priority of possible errors and the
bug report template.


4 - TEST PLAN AND STRATEGY

With the test requirements and test coverage defined, 
perform the appropriate tests, as described below:
 - Functional: Components and functionalities that do not work 
 as expected, not found pages, conflicting product 
 information in PLP and PDP.
 - Content: Empty pages, misspellings, pages with demo text,
 unclickable links.
 - Visual: missing design elements, visual inconsistencies,
 margin, fonts, colors and pading different from the design 
 guide.
 - Performance: page load time, time to perform actions 
 e.g. completing an order, registering, searching.
 - Browser: errors that only happen in some browsers.
 - Device: errors that only happen in some specific device.

The bug reporting process must happen objectively with efficient communication 
between the teams of testers and developers, and must define the priority 
order of errors based on their criticality. 
IN E-COMMERCES THERE MUST NOT BE BUGS THAT DISRUPTION THE CONVERSION (PURCHASE).
Bug reporting include a objective title, the steps to 
reproduce the error, a error visual evidence, the expected result 
and the real result.
 Browser bugs report should include which browsers are not OK (name + version). 
 Device bugs report should include which devices are not OK (name + version). 
 Perfomance bugs report should include a video records reproducing the error.


In addition to the mentioned tests, regression tests and retests 
must be performed during the project.
 
5 - RESOURCES
- Tools: Which tools will be used for the project, e.g. Jira for
defect tracking, Excel for test cases definition and bugs report.
- Browsers: On which browsers the e-commerce will be tested, e.g. latest
Chrome version, latest Edge version and latest Safari version.
- Devices:  on which devices the product will be tested, e.g. Desktop,
iPhone X, Android devices.

6 - CRITERIA OF QUALITY 
The product should operate in accordance with the requirements and the functional
specification.


7 - DELIVERABLES
- Test Plan.
- Bug reports and reports regarding the testing progress.



